Now that we understand
the object prototype we can even
more deeply understand what we mean by
everything in JavaScript is an object or
primitive because everything in
JavaScript that isn't a primitive,
a number, string, bullion etc.
Functions, arrays, basic objects.
They all have a prototype.
Except for one thing.
The base object in JavaScript.
Now let's take a look.
I'm going to go ahead and
create three things.
I'll create an object.
I'll create a function,
it'll just be empty.
And I'll create an array, also empty.
An empty object, an empty function,
and an empty array.
You can go ahead and
do this yourself if you like.
But we're only going to use these to
explain how everything has a prototype.
So if I go and run this there's no errors.
And I'll have access to a, b, and c.
They're in memory here,
running in the browser.
So in my console I can
go a which is an object,
__proto this works in the latest
version of Google Chrome.
And let's see what I have.
I have the base object in JavaScript.
The base object is just called object,
it's the very bottom of
the prototype chain always.
Everything eventually
leads to the base object.
And these objects have properties and
methods on them.
So if I go look at the base object,
dot, let's see what we have.
See, I have some properties and
methods, like toString.
All objects get access to .toString
because that's the bottom
of the prototype chain.
[SOUND] All right,
let's take a look at something else.
Let's try a function.
b is a function.
So, if I do .prototype, we'll see that
there's this empty function object
that's the prototype of all functions.
Any function you create in JavaScript
will automatically have this proto.
So what is it?
Well, on it, we have some
familiar properties and methods.
Remember apply?
Do you remember bind?
Do you remember call?
Those methods?
Remember how we said all functions
could access to those methods?
This is why.
All functions in JavaScript are
automatically have their proto property,
their prototype set to
this built in object
that has these methods on it, apply,
bind, call, and some other things.
So I have access to
these methods because it's on
the prototype of the function objects.
So when I call .apply, it looks for
it on my function, doesn't find it and
goes to the prototype which
happens to be set to an automatic
built-in JavaScript object
that does all of that work.
Makes sense?
Same for the array.
c was the array,
I'll go look at its prototype.
That's a little funkier.
Some kind of empty array.
But if I do a dot, I see it has
a whole bunch of useful functionality
like indexOf, length,
we've used that already.
We've also used push.
So all arrays in JavaScript, for example,
I can do .push,
because any array that I create,
the JavaScript engine
automatically sets its prototype
to this built in JavaScript object
that has the push method on it.
So I can call my array .push, and the
JavaScript engine searches the prototype
chain, doesn't find push on my array,
finds it on the prototype.
That's why it's automatically
available to you,
because JavaScript engine just
set the prototype for you.
Makes sense?
All arrays have a prototype pointing
to an object with these methods.
All functions have a prototype point to
an object with those function methods.
Now here's the fun thing.
What's the prototype of the prototype?
Object.
Remember, that's the bottom of
the prototype chain, always?
Eventually you get down to the bottom.
An object doesn't have a prototype,
it's the base.
Same thing with a function.
A function's prototype is that
base prototype object and
it's prototype is object.
And if I create my own simple object.
This prototype is object.
That built in core object that's
the bottom of the prototype chain.
So that's how you get access
to some of those methods and
properties that we've seen in others.
Understanding that helps us understand
what's happening under the hood and
that helps us understand
JavaScript better.
Let's move on.